Rule: Scrollable element is keyboard accessible (#1260)
act-rules/act-rules.github.io: _rules/scrollable-element-keyboard-accessible-0ssw9k.md

---
id: 0ssw9k
name: Scrollable element is keyboard accessible
rule_type: atomic
description: |
  This rule checks that scrollable elements can be scrolled by keyboard
accessibility_requirements:
  wcag20:2.1.1: # Keyboard (A)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
  wcag-technique:G202: # Ensuring keyboard control for all functionality
    forConformance: false
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - CSS Styling
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Wilco Fiers
---

## Applicability

Any HTML element that has [visible][] [children][] in the [flat tree][] for which one of the following is true:

> - It has a [horizontal scroll distance][scrollable] greater than the [computed][] [left][padding-left] or [right padding][padding-right]; or
> - It has a [vertical scroll distance][scrollable] greater than the [computed][] [top][padding-top] or [bottom padding][padding-bottom]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It has a [horizontal scroll distance][scrollable] greater than the [computed][] [left][padding-left] or [right padding][padding-right] of the element; or
- It has a [vertical scroll distance][scrollable] greater than the [computed][] [top][padding-top] or [bottom padding][padding-bottom] of the element
```

## Expectation

Each test target is either included in [sequential focus navigation][] or has a [descendant][] in the [flat tree][] that is included in [sequential focus navigation][].

> 

Author: Open question for reviewers: Should I add a note here to explain why this is needed?

Reviewer: That seems reasonable 👍

```html
<h1>
	<a href="//www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#abstract">
		WCAG 2.1 Abstract
	</a>
</h1>
<section style="height: 95px; width: 500px; overflow: hidden;">
	<p>
		Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 covers a wide range of recommendations for making Web content more
		accessible. Following these guidelines will make content more accessible to a wider range of people with
		disabilities, including accommodations for blindness and low vision, deafness and hearing loss, limited movement,
		speech disabilities, photosensitivity, and combinations of these, and some accommodation for learning disabilities
		and cognitive limitations; but will not address every user need for people with these disabilities. These guidelines
		address accessibility of web content on desktops, laptops, tablets, and mobile devices. Following these guidelines
		will also often make Web content more usable to users in general.
	</p>
</section>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 4

This [scrollable][] `section` element has no [visible][] content.

```html
<p>This is what a scrollbar looks like:</p>
<section style="height: 20px; width: 500px; overflow-x:scroll;">

> 	<div style="width: 1000px; height: 1px;"></div>

Reviewer 2: Here given the content is 1px in height, it is visible and affects rendered pixels, therefore it is not an invisible element as the description says.

> 	<div style="width: 1000px; height: 1px;"></div>

Author: If you set the opacity of this element to 0, there is no visual change on the page. This isn't visible according to the definition of visible that we're using.

---
id: 0ssw9k
name: Scrollable element is keyboard accessible
rule_type: atomic
description: |
  This rule checks that scrollable elements can be scrolled by keyboard
accessibility_requirements:
  wcag20:2.1.1: # Keyboard (A)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
  wcag-technique:G202: # Ensuring keyboard control for all functionality
    forConformance: false
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - CSS Styling
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Wilco Fiers
---

## Applicability

Any HTML element that has [visible][] [children][] in the [flat tree][] for which one of the following is true:

- It has a [horizontal scroll distance][scrollable] greater than the [computed][] [left][padding-left] or [right padding][padding-right] of the element; or
- It has a [vertical scroll distance][scrollable] greater than the [computed][] [top][padding-top] or [bottom padding][padding-bottom] of the element

## Expectation

> Each test target is either included in [sequential focus navigation][] or has a [descendant][] in the [flat tree][] that is included in [sequential focus navigation][].

Reviewer 3: Can be rephrased with [inclusive descendant](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-tree-inclusive-descendant) but not sure it is needed…
```suggestion
Each test target has an [inclusive descendant](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-tree-inclusive-descendant) in the [flat tree][] that is included in [sequential focus navigation][].
```

Author: I'd prefer to leave it as is; this is clearer.

> **Note:** Focus must be on or in a scrollable region, to ensure there is some element from which arrow keys can be used control the scroll position. This can still create an issue if scripts are used to prevent the keyboard events from reaching the scrollable region. This must be tested separately.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Note:** Focus must be on or in a scrollable region, to ensure there is some element from which arrow keys can be used to control the scroll position. This can still create an issue if scripts are used to prevent the keyboard events from reaching the scrollable region. This must be tested separately.
```

## Assumptions

> This rule assumes that all [scrollable elements][scrollable] with visible content need to be keyboard accessible. [Scrollable elements][scrollable] that do not need to be keyboard accessible, perhaps because its content is [purely decorative][] or because it scroll can be controlled some other way, may fail this rule but still satisfy [success criterion 2.1.1 Keyboard][].

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This rule assumes that all [scrollable elements][scrollable] with visible content need to be keyboard accessible. [Scrollable elements][scrollable] that do not need to be keyboard accessible, perhaps because their content is [purely decorative][] or because scroll can be controlled some other way, may fail this rule but still satisfy [success criterion 2.1.1 Keyboard][].
```

## Accessibility Support

_No accessibility support issues known._

## Background

- [Understanding Success Criterion 2.1.1: Keyboard](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/keyboard.html)
- [G202: Ensuring keyboard control for all functionality](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/general/G202)

## Test Cases

> ### Passed

Reviewer 3: Should we have a Passed Example with horizontal scrolling?

Author: I don't think that's necessary. Seems reasonable to assume that if you know to do this vertically you can do it horizontally. We're not building a test suite here, just testing that an implementor understands the concepts in this rule.

```html
<section style="height: 95px; width: 500px;">
	<h1>WCAG 2.1 Abstract</h1>
	<p>
		Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 covers a wide range of recommendations for making Web content more
		accessible. Following these guidelines will make content more accessible to a wider range of people with
		disabilities, including accommodations for blindness and low vision, deafness and hearing loss, limited movement,
		speech disabilities, photosensitivity, and combinations of these, and some accommodation for learning disabilities
		and cognitive limitations; but will not address every user need for people with these disabilities. These guidelines
		address accessibility of web content on desktops, laptops, tablets, and mobile devices. Following these guidelines
		will also often make Web content more usable to users in general.
	</p>
</section>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 2

This `section` element has a [scroll distance][scrollable] of 0 in both directions.

```html
<section style="height: 95px; width: 500px; overflow: auto;">
	<p>
		<a href="//www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#abstract">
			WCAG 2.1 Abstract
		</a>
	</p>
</section>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 3

> This `section` element has a [computed][] [overflow][] of `hidden`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This `section` element is not [scrollable][] because it has a [computed][] [overflow][] of `hidden`.
```
Applicability is about being scrollable, and only indirectly about overflow.
